NeuroFedora Computational Neuroscience ISO image is now available
#################################################################
:date: 2019-11-05 10:12:03
:author: Ankur Sinha
:category: News
:tags: Auryn, Brian, Computational Modelling, Fedora Lab, GENESIS, NEST, Neuron, NEURON, PyNN, Python, Quality Assurance 
:slug: neurofedora-computational-neuroscience-iso-image-is-now-available
:summary: As our first deliverable, a ready to use/install ISO containing
          computational neuroscience tools is now available! You can get it
          `here <https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/neurofedora/install-media/>`__.


.. include:: logo.txt

We have been busy working on our first deliverable so this post is a little
overdue. Since we now have quite a bit of `software for computational
neuroscience
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/neurofedora/compneuro-tools/>`__
available to use in NeuroFedora_, the obvious next step was to try and make
this even more easily available to users.

A `Fedora 31`_ based Comp Neuro ISO image is now ready, you can get it `here
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/neurofedora/install-media/>`__. For more
information on what this contains, and how it is created, read on.

Fedora Community deliverables
------------------------------

The Fedora community generates a bunch of deliverables for users. The main
ones, of course, are the primary editions: the workstation, the server edition,
CoreOS, Silverblue, IoT. They can all be obtained from the community website at
https://getfedora.org.

All of these are ready to use and have gone through a `thorough development
cycle <https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/31/Schedule>`__ that includes a
stringent `Quality Assurance (QA) <https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/QA>`__ cycle.
These are "live", so they can either either be used directly off the ISO image
without having to install them, or they can be used to install a Fedora based
system. Them being "live" makes them a great tool for temporary work---grab an
ISO, start up a virtual machine, use Fedora to do your work, destroy the
virtual machine when done.


While these are the main deliverables, the Fedora community also generates
other media for our diverse user base. These are classified as Spins_ and
Labs_. While the Workstation is based on the GNOME_ desktop environment, Spins_
provide Fedora users other desktop environment based images: KDE_, LXQT_, XFCE_,
Mate_, Cinnamon_, `Sugar on a stick (SAOS) <https://www.sugarlabs.org/>`__.
Labs_ are similar, but instead of focussing on the desktop environment, they
include customised sets of software required for particular purposes:
Astronomy, Design, Python, Security, Robotics.


The Fedora Community Change Process
-----------------------------------

We therefore, submitted a community change proposal to permit us to generate
another Fedora Lab image, one for computational neuroscience. You can read the
proposal `here <https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Changes/Comp_Neuro_Lab>`__. The
`Changes process
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/program_management/changes_policy/>`__
allows community members to propose new changes to aid the community. Depending
on their scope, they can either be "System wide" or "Self Contained" changes.
The `community discussed our proposal
<https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/devel-announce@lists.fedoraproject.org/thread/Z4NKZUX3SJXOC6QAC72AOEYECSS4JSKT/>`__,
and the Fedora Engineering Steering Committee (`FESCO
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fesco/>`__) has `approved it
<https://pagure.io/fesco/issue/2237>`__ as a change for the `Fedora 32`_ release.

So, from `Fedora 32`_ onwards, a Comp Neuro Lab image will be generated by the
`Fedora Release Engineering Team <https://docs.pagure.org/releng/>`__ as an
official Fedora community deliverable, and it will feature on the Fedora Labs_
website.

Fedora 31 Comp Neuro Image
----------------------------

`Fedora 32`_, however, is still in the works. `Fedora 31`_ was only released
recently. Therefore, in the meantime, as a Beta test, the NeuroFedora team is
generating an ISO based on `Fedora 31`_ ourselves.  You can get it `here
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/neurofedora/install-media/>`__.

This is based on the Fedora Workstation, which is an excellent GNOME_ based
operating system for users. To the Fedora Workstation, we added a variety of
simulators and analysis tools that are used in computational neuroscience, such
as: auryn, bionetgen, calcium-calculator, COPASI, qalculate, getdp,
genesis-simulator, gnuplot, moose, nest, neuron, neurord, octave, paraview,
python3, brian2, ipython, nest, neuron, libNeuroML, neo, nineml, PyLEMS, and
smoldyn.

It also includes the complete Python Science stack: matplotlib, jupyter
notebook, numpy, pandas, pillow, scikit-image, scikit-learn, scipy,
statsmodels, and sympy.


If you use these tools, please give it a go and see what you think. You can
contact us using one of our `communication channels
<https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/neurofedora/communicating/>`__ (also
linked in the top bar of this site). If you use a tool that is not included in
NeuroFedora_ yet, you can also suggest it for inclusion using `this form
<https://goo.gl/forms/j6AJ82yOh78MPxby1>`__.


.. include:: footer.txt

.. _NeuroFedora: https://neuro.fedoraproject.org
.. _Spins: https://spins.fedoraproject.org
.. _Labs: https://labs.fedoraproject.org
.. _Fedora 31: https://fedoramagazine.org/announcing-fedora-31/
.. _Fedora 32: https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/32/Schedule
.. _GNOME: https://gnome.org
.. _KDE: https://kde.org/
.. _LXQT: https://lxqt.org/
.. _XFCE: https://xfce.org/
.. _Mate: https://mate-desktop.org
.. _Cinnamon: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cinnamon_(desktop_environment)
